# Assignment 2

## Description

This assignment is about implementation of a wiremesh renderer. You have to create a 3D object which is defined around an axis of symmetry.

## implementation
You are supplied a text file vase.txt which consists of a profile (of discrete points) defined in one of the planes of the 3D coordinate system. You have to read the points, rotate this profile around a specified axis by a small angle increment, collect these newly formed points and create a polygonal mesh made up of triangles, and render it.

The steps are as follows:
1. Read the profile points from vase.txt
2. Consider z-axis as the axis of rotation and 2◦ angular increments of the given profile to form the discrete object boundary. That means, there will be 180 profiles around the axis of symmetry (360/2 = 180). However, you can use more profiles if you want, to make it look better in terms of smoothness, but 2◦ increment works pretty well. Use the matrix Rz(θ) for rotation, as in the course notes.
3. Once you generate the discrete profiles, triangulate the data to form a polygonal mesh of the object. You can use any triangulation method (say Delaunay triangulation), but to keep things simple, you can perform a naive triangulation as follows.
4. Consider two consecutive profiles (having same number of discrete points in each), which you have generated by applying discrete rotation to a single profile. Let’s consider neighbouring points (pi, pj ) on pth profile, and points (qi,qj) on qth profile. For the triangulation, we simply consider points (pi,qi,qj) forming the first triangle, and points (pi,pj,qj) forming the second triangle. In the figure below, these two triangles are shown as green and sky colours respectively.
5. Use the same technique to triangulate all the points in all the profiles.
6. Use appropriate data structure to store mesh attributes (i.e. vertices, faces of the triangles, etc.).
7. Next is the rendering step. You will write code of wiremesh renderer that can be used to visualize wiremesh objects. Define and open a window, cre- ate a synthetic camera, define the light source, material properties (choose any colour as you wish), and display the object (that you have stored as polygon mesh) in the window. You can use this tutorial to get an idea of how to use camera and specify material properties in OpenGL (this is just a suggestion, feel free to use any resource, there are plenty of tutorials and examples available in the web). You can get help on wiremesh (and also general mesh data structure) from this tutorial.
